**** OPPORTUNITY Dataset for Human Activity Recognition from Wearable, Object, and Ambient Sensors ****

The OPPORTUNITY Dataset for Human Activity Recognition from Wearable, Object, and Ambient Sensors (hereafter OPPORTUNITY dataset) is a dataset devised to benchmark human activity recognition algorithms (classification, automatic data segmentation, sensor fusion, feature extraction, etc).

A subset of this dataset was used for the OPPORTUNITY Activity Recognition Challenge organized for the 2011 IEEE conf on Systems, Man and Cybernetics Workshop on "Robust machine learning techniques for human activity recognition". 


LICENCE
-------

Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publication [1] or [2]. 
We recommend to refer to this dataset as the "OPPORTUNITY Activity Recognition Dataset" in publications.
We also appreciate if you drop us an email (droggen@gmail.com) to inform us of any publication using this dataset, so we can point to your publication on our webpage.

Reference [1] details the overall dataset, the scenario, the multimodality and sensor networking aspects of the setup, quality metrics, and best practices for the recording of complex multimodal activity datasets. Reference [2] provides the performance of a baseline activity recognition system on the OPPORTUNITY dataset, which can be used as a benchmark performance.

[1] Daniel Roggen, Alberto Calatroni, Mirco Rossi, Thomas Holleczek, Gerhard Tröster, Paul Lukowicz, Gerald Pirkl, David Bannach, Alois Ferscha, Jakob Doppler, Clemens Holzmann, Marc Kurz, Gerald Holl, Ricardo Chavarriaga, Hesam Sagha, Hamidreza Bayati, and José del R. Millàn. "Collecting complex activity data sets in highly rich networked sensor environments" In Seventh International Conference on Networked Sensing Systems (INSS’10), Kassel, Germany, 2010.

[2] Ricardo Chavarriaga, Hesam Sagha, Alberto Calatroni, Sundaratejaswi Digumarti, Gerhard Tröster, José del R. Millán, Daniel Roggen. "The Opportunity challenge: A benchmark database for on-body sensor-based activity recognition", Pattern Recognition Letters, 2013

Daniel Roggen, Alberto Calatroni, Long-Van Nguyen-Dinh, Ricardo Chavarriaga, Hesam Sagha & OPPORTUNITY consortium members
June 2012

Publications updated March 2013

